---
permalink: /
title: "Michael Torpey's homepage"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

This is the academic website of Dr Michael Torpey. I am a research software
engineer at the [School of Computer Science](https://www.cs.st-andrews.ac.uk/)
in the [University of St Andrews](http://www.st-andrews.ac.uk/), where I am
employed as part of the [OpenDreamKit project](https://opendreamkit.org/).

I undertook my PhD in the [School of Mathematics and
Statistics](http://www.st-andrews.ac.uk/maths/) here in St Andrews, starting in
2014 and graduating in June 2019.  My thesis was entitled [Semigroup
Congruences: Computational Techniques and Theoretical
Applications](files/mtorpey-phd-thesis-final.pdf)

I have been based in the University of St Andrews since 2009, completing the
degrees of BSc Computer Science/Mathematics in 2013 and MSc Mathematics with
Distinction in 2014.

As part of my MSc degree, I also wrote two dissertations on computational
semigroup theory, each of which contained some original research:
 * [Computing with Semigroup Congruences](files/mt5099-report.pdf)
   (2014-09-05, MT5099 Dissertation for MSc Programme/s)
 * [Computing with Congruences on Finite 0-Simple Semigroups](files/mt5991-report.pdf)
   (2014-05-19, MT5991 Professional Skills for Mathematical Scientists)

From September 2019 I will be an associate lecturer (education-focused) in the
school.

My Research
===========

My main interest is in computational semigroup theory; across the period of my
MSc and PhD I contributed to the [GAP](http://www.gap-system.org/) computational
algebra system, and in particular to the
[Semigroups](http://gap-packages.github.io/Semigroups/)
and
[Digraphs](http://www-groups.mcs.st-and.ac.uk/~jamesm/digraphs.php)
packages for GAP. One particular area of my focus is on computing semigroup
congruences; I have written and implemented a number of algorithms for this in
the Semigroups package. Since submitting my thesis, I have also become a main
author of the
[curlInterface](https://gap-packages.github.io/curlInterface/)
and
[MathInTheMiddle](https://gap-packages.github.io/MathInTheMiddle/)
packages for GAP, as well as creating
[pypersist](https://github.com/mtorpey/pypersist),
a new persistent memoisation framework for Python. I also created
[PackageManager](https://github.com/gap-packages/PackageManager),
a package management system for GAP.
